A)Nearest neighbor analysis.
Given the locations of all known significant earthquakes places, we need to find out the nearest 
populated place for each location where the earthquake happened.
Required dataset:
ne_10m_populated_places_simple signif.txt
Required plugin:
MMQGIS
1.Add delimited text layer “signif.txt”
2.Choose Tab as format, X and Y field will be auto populated. Click Ok. Select WGS 84 as CRS.
3.Now add vector layer “ne_10m_populated_places_simple.shp”
4.Zoom and observe both the layer carefully. Each purple and blue point represents location of significant 
earthquake and populated places respectively. We need to find out nearest point from populated places layer for
 each of the point in earthquake layer.
5.Go to vector  analysis tools  distance matrix.
6.On next screen select signif layer as input layer and ne_10m_populated_places_simple as target layer. We need
 to select a unique field from each of these layers which is how our results will be displayed. Select name as target
 unique ID field. Here, we are looking to get only 1 nearest point so we will check Use only the nearest(k) target point, 
and enter 1. Specify location for output file and give name of output file as “matrix.csv”, click on ok. After processing 
click on close.
7.Add this file as delimited text layer.
8.On next screen, since the file created just now is csv file contains only text therefore select No geometry as geometry
 definition. And click on Ok.
9.This file is loaded as table. Right click on this layer in layer pane and click on open attribute tables.
10.The InputID field contains the field name from the Earthquake layer and The TargetID field contains the name of the 
feature from the Populated Places layer that was the closest to the earthquake point. The Distance field is the distance between
 the 2 points. (distance is calculated in decimal degrees units as the project is having default Geographic CRS).
11.This table would be sufficient. However, we can also integrate this result in our original Earthquake layer using a 
“Table Join”. Double click on Earthquake layer, Properties window will get open.
12.Go to the Joins tab and click on the + button.
13.Select matrix as the Join layer and InputID (matrix) as the Join field. The Target field would be I_D (signif). Click on OK.
 Join will appear in property window, now click on Ok.
14.Now right click on signif and click on open attribute table.
15.We will see that for every Earthquake feature, we now have an attribute which is the nearest neighbor (closest populated place)
 and the distance to the nearest neighbor.
16.Now to visualize these results. First, we need to make the table join permanent by saving it to a new layer. Right-click the 
signif layer and select Save As....
17.Select format as ESRI Shapefile, select location and give name as “earthquake_with_places.shp” for this file. Click on change 
button to select CRS and select WGS 84, click on Ok. Check add saved file to map and click on Ok.
18.Now we can uncheck original signif layer as we are not going to use it further.
19.Double click on earthquake_with_places layer to open property window.
20.Select general tab and scroll down and click on query builder button.
21.For this tutorial, we will visualize the earthquakes and their nearest populated places for India. Enter the following expression
 in the Query Builder dialog box.
22.We will see that only the points falling within India will be visible in the canvas. Let’s do the same for the populated places layer.
 Double click on
   the ne_10m_populated_places_simple layer to open property window.
23.Open query builder dialog box and enter the following expression. And click on Ok on property window.
24.Now we are ready to create our visualization, but we will require a plugin “MMQGIS”. So, we need to make sure that the plugin is installed.
 Go to MMQGIS  Create  Hub Lines.
25.Select ne_10m_populated_places_simple as the Hub Point Layer and name as the Hub ID Attribute. Similarly, select earthquake_with_places as
 the Spoke Point Layer and matrix_Tar as the Spoke Hub ID Attribute. The hub lines algorithm will go through each of earthquake points and create
 a line that will join it to the populated place which matches the attribute we have specified. Click Browse and name the Output Shapefile as
 earthquake_hub_lines.shp and Click on OK to start the processing.
26.It may take few minutes. Once the processing is done, we will see the
earthquake_hub_lines layer loaded in QGIS. We can see that each earthquake point now has a line that connects it to the nearest populated place.
 

